# Measuring-Credit-Score-Machine-learning

To reduce the default risk of an investor in peer to peer lending institution this project measure and analyze credit score of retail or individual customer. Considering lending club as a sample of the industry we will classify customer as Good (1) or Bad (0) based on different attributes. Then by using machine learning classification algorithm (Logistic Regression, Naïve Bayes, Decision Tree, Random Forest, Support vector machine) accuracy and precision of the model will be measure and compared.

We choose our dataset from Kaggle (https://www.kaggle.com/), and it contains 2,650,550 observations with 150 variables for the time period of 2007 to 2019Q3. To get meaningful variable description we also use Data dictionary from Kaggle and merge it with the main dataset. after Data cleaning, Feature engineering, Correlation, Train & Test data, we set our Classification Models for Logistic Regression, Naïve Bayes, Decision Tree, Random Forest, Support vector machine.

Analyzing the result of the above 5 models that are used to measure the performance of our credit rating, it can be seen that overall the credit score model is quite robust and accurate considering the fact that all the models have and accuracy over 85% for both holdout method and cross validation. Moreover, use of feature engineering helped to achieve such accurate scores. Feature engineering helped to point out the most important attributes to work with in order to achieve our results. However, the attributes that defines class 0 seems to be less accurate compared to class 1 as it showed poorer results in terms of precision and recall score and type I as well as type II error in confusion matrix.

There are various companies that spearhead such measures like FICO in USA. More than often, credit given to customers has always been emphasized to such measures of risk mitigation like FICO score. Coming back to our objective was to formulate a credit score that is robust enough to accurately separate good borrower from bad in order to predict who will be paying off loan to others. Using data of lending club, we have made a credit scoring model which will help us to classify accurately the objective of the report. With the advancement of technology and e-commerce Peer to Peer Lending Industry is at a boom. Companies such as lending club have the biggest limelight for success and failure.
Throughout our work, we have meticulously selected the most relevant and important features that defines a borrower using various machine learning tools such as Feature Engineering. In addition, industry practices have also been taken into consideration. When the results were calculated, it was indeed proven that the formulated credit rating score card is better than current industry practice. Moreover, the credit rating scorecard proves to be effective to other companies as well both within competitors such as PROSPER to other geographical location like ZOPA. Therefore, we believe that we have successfully made a credit rating model that is robust and highly accurate
